[SCREECHING]
What are the chances
my van hits a police car this morning?
You gonna help me.
Odell Morgan. What can you tell me?
He was convicted of
killing his wife. Simone.
Simone's body was never found.
I did not kill my wife.
Morgan's brother-in-law testified
to seeing Morgan transporting
a heavy rug into his vehicle.
Why did you lie?
I had to.
- They made me.
- Who are you scared of?
Someone took him out.
[GLASS SHATTERING]
Someone framed Morgan.
[SIREN WAILING]
Wanna know who killed my wife.
[BEEPING]
Your dad didn't kill her.
Who did?
I don't know yet. but I'm gonna help.
[DRAMATIC MUSIC]
[VOICE ECHOING] What are the chances
that I crashed into you?
[PEN CLICKS]
[FOOTSTEPS APPROACHING]
Oh. you're still here.
I thought everyone cleared out.
I'm looking for a new office phone.
- Mine has gone paws up.
- In there.
Okay.
Simone Morgan's case.
Anything pop?
No.
The more I spend on it.
the more I realize
I keep running into the same questions.
Cold cases always feel like that.
Working them is an act of faith.
Yeah. you gotta blindly
believe that someday. somehow.
something will appear.
A lead that was missed.
You want help?
Voight said I can't have
anyone helping me
until something new pops.
So we'll work it off hours.
That's okay. You don't have to do that.
You could just say thank you and let me.
[SCOFFS] Thank you.
Mm-hmm.
Timeline?
I'm working the last 36 hours
before Simone died.
She used to work the night
shift at a local diner.
She worked there
the night before she died?
Yeah.
Typical night.
Clocked out at 11:02 p.m.
Walked home.
[TENSE MUSIC]
She always took the same path home.
It's about an 18-minute walk.
♪ ♪
And she made it home. no problem.
Yes. but she didn't go to sleep.
Instead. she stayed up
and placed three 911 calls.
all hang-ups.
Any theories why?
Original detectives thought
the 911 calls were related
to her husband.
that they had been fighting.
she was scared.
but we know that's not true.
♪ ♪
Then she wakes up the next day.
stays home with her kid.
takes her kid to a sleepover
at the friend's.
Then doesn't go to work.
Her and Odell go
to a bar instead. fight.
He can tell something's wrong.
She seems off.
They go home. He passes out.
And wakes up to blood.
Her body's gone.
but the amount of blood loss
indicates death.
And someone frames
Odell Morgan for her death.
then years later. kills Carter
Thomas to cover their tracks.
Something happened to her
in those 36 hours.
She was fine at work. She goes home.
She calls 911.
Acts strange. stays home all day.
calls out of work.
fights with her husband.
Is killed.
Feels like she was scared of something.
I really don't remember
my mom being scared.
Why are we walking this way again?
Repetition.
Might help jog the memory.
I told you. I don't really
remember anything.
I wasn't paying attention.
You were 15.
Of course you weren't.
Do you remember her
being off the next day
or her mentioning anything?
No. I don't.
I don't know. I'm sorry.
There's no reason to be sorry.
What could have happened to her?
I mean. something that
she was murdered over?
What?
What is it?
I didn't notice that before.
A truck driver named Noah Lewis
was shot in the chest
on that block six years ago.
A murder.
What date?
Mm...
August 22nd.
The night before Simone was killed.
What time?
[TENSE MUSIC]
Uh. gunshots were reported to 911
from a nearby neighbor at 11:07 p.m.
Right when Simone was walking home.
She passed that location.
Every single night.
What if that's why she was killed?
She witnessed a murder.
Synced & corrected by -robtor-
www.addic7ed.com
The night before
Simone Morgan was killed.
a young truck driver
named Noah Lewis was
shot and killed in a suspected
drug rip gone wrong.
Police thought it was a rip crew.
but they never confirmed it.
because Noah's killer was never caught.
How is this related to Simone's murder?
Noah's time of death is
consistent with the exact time
Simone would have been walking home.
And her usual route puts her
in the exact spot
where Noah was murdered.
We believe that
Simone witnessed the homicide.
- Hmm.
- Okay.
So your theory is.
Simone saw Noah get murdered.
Offender clocked her. tracked her down.
and then killed her too?
- And Carter.
- Yes.
Offender was covering his tracks.
I mean. it's wide. but it could fit.
It fits.
Why Simone was scared.
Why she acted off the next day.
Why she called 911. called in sick.
She didn't know what to do.
She was panicking.
If we're right. we ID who killed Noah.
then we ID who killed Simone.
It's good.
It's enough now.
Come on. let's all work it.
Noah was found shot
beside his box truck.
The truck was modified
to conceal bulk narcotics.
and the traps were forced open
and empty of drugs
by the time police arrived on scene.
So was Noah affiliated?
Yeah. documented G-Park.
DEA had his truck indexed.
Electronic homicide file
was pretty thin.
None of the handwritten
GPRs were in there.
Yeah. but originals should
still be with the Area Cold Case.
Yep. Area 1.
I'll be back.
You think that's why she was killed?
She witnessed a murder?
Do you remember hearing
the name Noah Lewis?
No. I don't think so.
This is him.
Do you recognize him?
No.
My mom saw this kid die?
That's so awful.
I mean. she must have been terrified.
It's still just a theory.
but it feels good to me.
Good?
Right.
It feels right.
[KNOCKING]
Hey. sorry.
Uh. lead detective on Noah's case
died from cancer last year.
but all the files are in Area 1.
so I told them we'd be coming by.
All right. Thank you.
Look. um. I gotta go.
I'll call you as soon as I know more.
You can call me anytime.
Okay.
All these unsolved murders.
Families without closure.
Yeah.
Most of these people spend
their whole lives
waiting for answers they'll never get.
And this is just Area 1.
This way.
Should be here.
Here. take this one.
Okay.
The handwritten notes here.
Person of interest log.
Lead detective was thorough.
Noted every person he spoke to.
even the ones that went nowhere.
Hey. can you read this?
Looks like "talk to Marcus again."
Who's Marcus?
I don't know. there's...
there's a bunch of Marcuses listed here.
Let me see.
The lead detective might
be dead. but chances are.
he hooked in the reporting
officer assigned to the beat.
Brian Foster.
- Detective Foster.
- Yeah.
[INDISTINCT RADIO CHATTER]
Torres. Intelligence.
Oh. hey. Voight's guys.
- Imani.
- Uh. listen.
This poor bastard got
choked out in broad daylight.
I got six witnesses; they're all high.
So I can give you five minutes.
Good?
Mind?
People get all weird these days.
So we're looking into
the Noah Lewis case.
It's a truck driver that got shot and...
Yeah. was whacked outside
his truck in Bronzeville?
Yeah. I remember it.
I was assigned to that beat back then.
It was a dope rip gone wrong.
Kid was young.
Was a damn shame.
Yeah. are these your notes?
Yeah. that's my handwriting.
I was first officer on scene
that night. did the paper.
Do you recall who Marcus was?
Uh. "talk to Marcus again."
No. I don't remember any Marcus.
What the hell are you guys
doing with that old case anyway?
Well. we believe Noah Lewis has
a connection with two other homicides.
Simone Morgan and Carter Thomas.
Yeah. never heard of them.
but I appreciate the commitment.
All right? Been there before myself.
Locked in on a case that went nowhere.
So no idea who this Marcus was
or why you wanted to speak to him again?
Nah. sorry.
You know. we interviewed
dozens of G-Park Lords.
No one said a thing.
They closed rank. right?
Seemed like they...
they knew who committed the rip
and wanted street justice.
Did they get it?
Probably.
I mean. chances are.
whoever killed that poor kid
is long dead and buried
at the bottom of a lake somewhere.
Right.
[YELLING IN DISTANCE]
I gotta go. but any other questions
come up. you just give me a holler. hmm?
- All right. Thank you.
- Thank you for your time.
Mm-hmm.
[SIGHS]
Dante. you got ears on?
Yeah. go ahead.
I ran all the Marcuses you gave me.
I got one possible.
His name is Marcus Lee.
He's listed in the gang database
and your personal logbook.
He was in the G-Park six years ago.
Young. but listed as
an enforcer for their runners.
All right. that fits.
Uh. what's his status?
Uh. he got no status now.
The G-Parks cut ties 'cause
he got high off his own supply.
He's been arrested multiple times
for possession and solicitation.
So he might talk now?
Yeah.
His LKA was knocked down two years ago.
but he's known to work
an old lot on 16th and Cicero.
Could be worth a shot.
[RUMBLING]
Approaching the back door now.
Copy you. Ocean. We got your six.
[TENSE MUSIC]
♪ ♪
Here we go.
What's up. man?
Who you talking to?
I'm talking to you. man.
I'm looking at you.
Oh. you friendly now. huh?
Well. I ain't. so keep it
pushing with your friendly ass.
Wanna be friends now?
Got some good dope.
Show me what you got.
I'll give you a good deal.
Who the hell are you
and why the hell you think
you can sling here?
Chill. bro.
I'ma show you how chill I get.
Let's go get him.
[GRUNTING]
[BLOWS LANDING]
Don't move! Hey!
I got one in custody.
Target took off to the south side
of the building wearing a gray shirt.
Chicago PD.
Hey. stop!
Stop.
[GRUNTS]
Stop. stop moving.
Put your hands out.
Calm your ass down.
We got you now.
[BREATHING SHAKILY]
2019?
You asking me about
something from six years ago?
What's the statute of limitations?
We know you were with the G-Parks then.
We know you were
overseeing their runners.
One of them was Noah Lewis.
I told you. I don't know who Noah is.
And I told you. I don't believe you.
It was years ago.
I don't even remember
who I was back then.
There's not much standing between you
and getting out of here.
but we got 48 hours to hold you.
That is a long time to go
before you're getting well.
It was August 22nd.
Someone ripped off
Noah's truck and killed him.
Who?
You helping right now could
help solve three murders.
You said three?
Whoever killed that young truck driver
also killed two other people.
one of them a young mother.
Listen.
You're down on your luck right now.
You're feeling sick. useless.
I get it.
But I promise you.
right now. you're not.
Right now. you can help.
And I won't forget it.
That old rip was an inside job.
I thought that then. I think that now.
An inside job by the G-Parks?
Yeah. man. that's what I'm saying.
Okay. why do you think that?
The G-Parks was a mess back then.
- Okay.
- Fighting. beefing.
There was this one guy who was shut out
because he kept slipping up. kept lying.
Okay. Who?
We need a name.
Darrell Jenkins.
Long rap. mostly armed robbery
and aggravated assault.
He was with the G-Parks
since he was a teenager.
Now. Marcus's story checks out.
Darrell was beefing
with the higher-ups in 2019.
and we got Gang Intel's evidence
and text records of it.
And after Noah's murder.
Darrell disappeared.
Guy either died or went to ground.
There's zero trace of him.
If Darrell killed Noah.
the G-Parks knew.
Hell. he'll be a dead man
if he didn't disappear.
According to the Cook County docket.
he's got an active bench
warrant for an old drug case.
- Any known associates?
- No.
- No family either.
- All right.
Well. keep digging until you find
someone who knows something.
Wait. wait.
He's got a cousin. Larry Moore.
He's been dead four years.
but he's got water.
gas. and electric bills in his name
in a back unit apartment in Englewood.
Go.
[TENSE MUSIC]
♪ ♪
Approaching the back unit now.
Copy you. Front's secure.
♪ ♪
We got movement in the garage.
[CAR ENGINE TURNS OVER]
Copy you.
Chicago PD!
Turn off the vehicle and get out.
Turn it off!
Hey. stop!
Turn off the vehicle right now!
Hands up!
- Gun.
- Got it.
Get out.
Get down.
You got anything that can hurt me?
No.
Get your hands behind your back.
Hands behind your back. Don't move.
I'm not fighting you.
Just get me off of the street.
He was all packed up
like he knew you were coming. Ocean.
I said. get me off the street!
I heard you. Get up.
- Get me off the street.
- What do you mean?
- What are you talking about?
- Get me someplace safe.
- Why?
- He's gonna kill me.
Okay? Get me out of here.
Wait. wait. wait. wait. who?
I'm a dead man if y'all don't listen.
He's gonna kill me.
He's gonna kill me. Please. please.
♪ ♪
All right. get out.
Come on.
Inside.
All right.
You got what you asked for. Now talk.
- Who can come down here?
- Nobody.
How do I know that's true?
Because he's telling you.
What is going on?
You don't talk. we lead you
right back outside.
I need a deal.
For what?
Ripping that G-Park truck six years ago?
Killing Noah Lewis.
Simone Morgan. Carter Thomas?
I didn't kill nobody.
Now. why would we believe that?
Because it's true.
I ripped a couple of trucks.
yeah. but I didn't kill nobody.
And I want a deal saying that.
I want a deal that's gonna protect me.
From who?
Three people lost their lives.
and you thought you were
about to lose yours.
You're not safe until
we choose to protect you.
Tell me who.
Brian Foster.
Detective Brian Foster?
Yes.
[TENSE MUSIC]
Don't look at me like that. all right?
It's true.
He was working Bronzeville.
He busted me once.
One thing led to another.
and we was working together. all right?
I knew what the trucks was holding.
I knew the routes.
I would tell Foster the when
and the where and...
He'd rip them with you?
Yes.
He'd pull them over like a traffic stop.
I would rip the dope. but it went wrong.
All right? Kid fought back.
I saw Foster shoot him down.
Foster?
I'm telling you the truth.
♪ ♪
I mean. he says he was tipped
off by a call from Foster
45 minutes before we showed up.
He says Foster didn't want him
talking to cops.
is convinced Foster would have
eventually killed him
after the heat died down.
The number who called him was a burner?
Yes. Burner is off now.
so we can't confirm it was really him.
but Darrell does sound legitimate.
He also lived under
an alias for six years.
so clearly he's good at lying.
He's also a really bad
cooperating defendant
with zero solid proof.
Who just put himself
at the scene of a crime
of armed robbery and a murder.
It's the word of a convicted felon
versus a Homicide detective.
But it fits.
It all fits.
Simone was scared.
She didn't tell her husband.
She didn't go to work.
She hung up on the police three times.
Who would scare her more than a cop?
Odell Morgan was framed... well...
and it was a long-range shot
that killed Carter Thomas.
Which could indicate police skill set.
And it was Detective Brian Foster.
the only cop that knew
that we had reopened the case.
We're gonna need a hell
of a lot more than this.
I'm sorry.
All right. we can move forward. but...
unless we get something
concrete. we move real quiet.
All right. first thing. get
Darrell's statement on record.
Dante.
See if Dominique recognizes Foster.
Hmm?
[KNOCKING]
Hey. Maria.
Is Dominique here?
Uh...
Is everything okay?
Sarge. I found her.
She's okay. but stand by.
Dominique?
What are you doing here?
How did you find me?
You share your location
with your roommate.
[SHIP'S HORN BLOWING]
My dad used to take me here.
He loved the boats.
I don't even know why.
I never asked him.
Your dad used to work
with boats in the summer
when he was 16.
Maybe that's why he liked them.
[CRYING] I didn't know that.
I didn't know that about my own father.
You didn't get the time to know him.
I didn't wanna know.
I hated him!
[SOMBER MUSIC]
For six years. I hated him.
♪ ♪
[CRYING]
Nothing makes sense anymore.
What I thought I knew
about my parents and my life...
None of it makes sense now.
It's like up is down.
I get that.
How can you get that?
I know what it feels like
when nothing makes sense anymore.
♪ ♪
What am I supposed to do now?
I don't know.
What did you do?
I met your dad.
He never lost his faith.
Never.
No one believed him.
but he just kept on going.
So...
I guess we keep on going.
♪ ♪
I didn't realize how hungry I was.
[CHUCKLES]
Who taught you to cook?
My mom.
Mm.
My mom liked to cook.
- Yeah?
- Mm-hmm.
I mean. I did come here
earlier because I wanted to...
Oh. God. you have something. don't you?
Yeah. [CHUCKLES]
- And I just completely...
- No. no. It's okay.
Is it all right if I show you something?
Yeah. yeah.
All right.
Do you recognize anyone here?
Mm...
No.
Sorry. I don't.
Okay.
It's okay.
[WATER RUNNING]
Hey. wait.
He looks...
he didn't have on the uniform. but...
Who?
I think this man. he was there.
[SUSPENSEFUL MUSIC]
The night my mom died.
She walked me to a friend's
house for a sleepover. and...
I think he was there.
♪ ♪
She remembers him.
He was outside her friend's house
in plain clothes. watching her mom.
Simone didn't see.
And Dominique at the time.
she shrugged it off
as him being a neighbor or something.
but that was Foster ID'ing
Simone for the first time.
He was following her.
We did a cell tower dump. confirmed it.
Brian Foster's phone was
there near the friend's house.
turned off an hour later.
And it was his RDO. He wasn't on shift.
There was no good reason
for him to be in that area.
Still a hell a lot of room in that.
I got more.
So Dominique also told me
that Foster was watching her
from a vehicle... a nice one.
which makes no sense.
because Foster was
a beat cop at the time.
But I found this.
He bought a Porsche. paid for it in cash
in his cousin's name.
made all service appointments.
That's a $75.000 car.
Foster didn't make that cash
from pushing a beat car.
That cash was from drug rips.
All right. do we have anything else?
We did confirm Darrell's alibis
for Simone and Carter's murders.
We also confirmed that
he was arrested by Foster
eight months prior to Noah's homicide.
released without charges.
Darrell's claims about
the drug rips do seem legit.
but we don't have anything tangible
that ties Foster to the crimes
other than Darrell's word.
You get Dominique on record?
Yes.
That's enough to hold.
but you're gonna have to build more.
Yeah. we will.
[SIGHS]
Okay.
Bring him in.
Hey.
Move smart.
Detective Foster.
Hey. Officer Imani. Torres.
You got a few minutes?
Uh. sorry. Been a day.
Any questions about your cold case
are gonna have to wait.
We understand. but we got something
we need you to look at.
We really would appreciate
your help on this.
It won't take long.
Really. now's not a good time.
You're welcome to come back
tomorrow. okay?
It's just a few questions.
[ENGINE STARTS]
[TAPPING]
We'd really appreciate
your cooperation. Detective.
Sure.
You got it.
We have evidence
corroborating our timeline.
placing you at the scene
with each of our victims
on or about the time of their murders.
We have witness testimony
establishing your prior contact
with Simone Morgan.
And we have a witness who will testify
that you were at the scene
of Noah Lewis's death.
that you shot and killed him.
and that you had motive to kill
both Simone Morgan and Carter Thomas.
That's three homicides.
The sooner you talk.
the better your chances.
That's all?
This is ridiculous.
You don't have enough to charge.
So I'll just make myself
comfortable right here.
That okay with you two?
Go right ahead.
Odell Morgan was
a good man. a smart man.
He didn't give up.
And I won't either.
[SUSPENSEFUL MUSIC]
♪ ♪
- I got him.
- Good morning.
There was a rug missing
from Morgan's living room.
Okay.
And the false witness. Carter. claimed
he saw Odell carrying
the rug out to his car.
We know that's a lie. but...
The best lies are closest to the truth.
So Foster would have needed
a vehicle to transport the rug
and Simone's body out of the house.
and he wouldn't have used
his police squad.
He would have used his personal vehicle.
And both of Foster's
vehicles at the time
were two-door coupes.
A rug wouldn't have fit inside.
- So he borrowed another.
- He had to.
But you wouldn't borrow
a friend's car for that.
You wouldn't steal one. That's too hot.
So I ran through all
of Foster's traffic stops
that resulted in impound. and I found
a gray Chevy pickup truck that
was scheduled to be destroyed.
- Was it?
- No.
That same Chevy pickup truck
was found missing
the day after Simone's murder.
There's no way that's a coincidence.
Foster used that truck to dump the body.
That's good work. Dante.
[TENSE MUSIC]
Call in the team.
♪ ♪
This was six years ago.
The only traffic cams we have are what
the lead detective saved.
and it's not a lot.
Then we run historical
on all plate readers.
- Is that saved?
- It should be.
I got multiple hits on that
vehicle prior to that day.
I got it.
I got the Chevy going through
two different toll booths
and an exit the night of the murder.
And timeline matches.
I got it around Wilmette.
Check for a nexus.
Wilmette and Brian Foster.
Copy you.
Yeah. I got nothing that ties him yet.
The lake's out there.
There's inlets. pockets.
Enough to dump a body and a car?
Possible.
That's a damn good way
to make them disappear.
Simone's there.
- She's there.
- All right.
What was the last hit on the toll booth?
What exit?
I got it.
Dempster Road.
Let's hit it.
[HELICOPTER ROTORS THRUMMING]
[DRAMATIC MUSIC]
♪ ♪
[VOICE ECHOING] What are the chances...
my van hits a police car this morning?
Your car.
What are the damn chances?
It's fate?
What else could it be?
♪ ♪
1070 to 5021 units.
We got something
between 87th Street point
and the breaker wall.
Deploying divers now.
♪ ♪
Hey. my 48 must be up.
If you have any more questions...
Brian Foster. you're under arrest
for the murders of Simone
Morgan and Noah Lewis.
What?
You have the right to remain silent.
Anything you say can
and will be used against you
in a court of law.
What are you talking about?
You don't have anything on me.
We have Simone's body.
You have the right to an attorney.
If you cannot afford an attorney.
one will be provided for you.
Do you understand these rights
as I have told them to you?
[SOLEMN MUSIC]
♪ ♪
[CRYING]
[WOLF HOWLS]
[TENSE MUSIC]
♪ ♪